Say we do 'cyber-physical systems', aligning with modelica.org (#3037)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/introduction.tex

\section{Overview of Modelica}\label{overview-of-modelica}

> Modelica is a language for modeling of cyber-physical systems, designed to support effective library development and model exchange.

Reviewer: Regarding "model exchange": It seems that FMI/FMU has overtaken Modelica Language (in number of supporting tools) when it comes to model exchange. Maybe we could also clarify the distinction w.r.t. FMI, say text-based, white-box or platform-neutral.

Author: Maybe "equation-based"?

Reviewer 2: The next sentence talks about modeling with equations, so I think we don't need to mention it here.

Author: The same could probably be said regarding _support effective library development_ in view of the _facilitate reuse of modeling knowledge_.  One alternative could thus be to focus on the modeling aspect alone, but then combine with the following sentence to improve the text flow:
```suggestion
Modelica is a language for modeling of cyber-physical systems, based on acausal modeling with mathematical equations and object-oriented constructs to facilitate reuse of modeling knowledge.
```
(Note the switch from _built on_ to _based on_ to reduce risk of association with _cyber-physical systems_ instead of _language_.)

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me. I'll wait for other comments and the official commit before approving.

Author: OK.  I'll give it some more time for reactions before pushing the change.

Author: Done.

Any concerns regarding the now complete absence of any form of _model exchange_?

> Modelica is a language for modeling of cyber-physical systems, supporting acausal modeling with mathematical equations and object-oriented constructs to facilitate modeling from first principles and reuse of modeling knowledge.

Reviewer: It's all about _modeling_ then. 😄

Author: Right.  Synonyms, anyone?

Author: Is this better?
```suggestion
Modelica is a language for modeling of cyber-physical systems, supporting acausal connection of components governed by mathematical equations to facilitate modeling from first principles.
It provides object-oriented constructs that facilitate reuse of models, and can be used conveniently for modeling complex systems containing, e.g., mechanical, electrical, electronic, magnetic, hydraulic, thermal, control, electric power or process-oriented subcomponents.
```

Reviewer 3: I prefer the first variant, since the latter:

- Introduces "connection" which is begins to get into internals that we should avoid in an overview.
- It only states that the connections are acausal, not the equations themselves. This is an important distinction since there have been competing technologies that don't fully embrace acausal equations, but sort of allow acausal connections.

Author: > I prefer the first variant, since the latter:
> - Introduces "connection" which is begins to get into internals that we should avoid in an overview.

I didn't intend _connection_ to be understood in the technical sense of Modelica, but in a generic and harmless sense that I don't think hurts in an introduction like this one.

> - It only states that the connections are acausal, not the equations themselves. This is an important distinction since there have been competing technologies that don't fully embrace acausal equations, but sort of allow acausal connections.

Can't we consider acausality a property of mathematical equations that should be naturally understood by our readers?

I believe the best we can do at the moment is to try to come up with some alternatives to be further discussed at the phone meeting on Wednesday, so let's just consider the variant above as one proposal with more moderate use of _modeling_ compared to the formulation it intends to replace.  Maybe you could provide some other proposal for how to avoiding all the _modeling_?

Reviewer 4: @gwr69: I like to add that we address cyber-physical systems very well now in the Modelica Association with the new eFMI Standard developed in the ITEA3 project EMPHYSIS (cf. https://emphysis.github.io/).

And of course, eFMI is tested with Modelica models as basis (cf. https://github.com/modelica/efmi-testcases). And industrial demonstrators (like an Audi A8 whose active dampening is controlled by a Modelica model deployed on the car's ECU, cf. https://www.mdpi.com/2076-0825/10/11/301).

So I would say it is not just a claim that Modelica supports cyber-physical systems -- we do successfully.

Reviewer 3: Agreement to Suggested change above (in this thread)+restore trademark.

> It is a modern language built on acausal modeling with mathematical equations and object-oriented constructs to facilitate reuse of modeling knowledge.

Reviewer: Regarding "modern": This is relative and subject to change. Is Modia more modern cause it was started later in time?

Reviewer 5: Isn't Modelica "built on _mixing_ causal and acausal modeling"?

Author: I would not say we really embrace causal modeling with Modelica.  You can do something that _looks_ causal using the `block` style component interfaces, but in the end it's not ascribing causality the way one might think anyway.

Author: > Regarding "modern": This is relative and subject to change. Is Modia more modern cause it was started later in time?

Yeah, stating that something is modern in this way is like having _democratic_ in the name of a country.  It looks like an attempt to claim being something that wouldn't be naturally assumed otherwise.

Reviewer 5: @henrikt-ma But next to `block` there are assignment statements `:=` and `algorithm` sections? What about discrete event system modeling (DEVS) is this all done in a non-causal fashion in Modelica?

Author: To me, the causal still appears as an exception to the rule in Modelica.  That causality can sometimes be controlled is in my mind not the same as saying that Modelica is a language _for_ causal modeling.

It would be really interesting to hear what others think of this.

Reviewer 3: I agree that dropping 'modern' might be good, and I would suggest that instead of saying that it is "built on acausal modeling with mathematical equations" we could write "supports acausal modeling with mathematical equations", or some variant of this.

To me this provides the main focus on acausal modeling as _differentiator_ compared to other languages.
Saying that a language is "built on" can be less clear as it might also be an internal detail similarly as Scala and Clojure are "built on JVM".

Author: I find that a very good and non-controversial suggestion, @HansOlsson.  Done.  Please comment.

Reviewer 2: Looks good to me.

end Example;
\end{lstlisting}

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer 3: This seems like an incomplete merge.

Author: Indeed.  What kind of tool allows me to commit that without a loud alarm?!

Fixed.
